### Game Mechanic 2: Spell Casting ###


*** General ***

Our dungeon crawler will support spell casting by the player. We will add an
additional key (e.g. spacebar) to trigger spell casting. When the key is
pressed it should generate a new spell with the direction of the player, the
position of the player and an attribute called "spell range". This spell range
is needed in order to realize that the spell affects only in a specific range.
Any system with damage points is not needed at this moment as there are no
enemies implemented yet. So when a spell is spawn, it travels along the given
path and direction until is should disappear (see next section).


*** Disappearance of spells ***

There are 2 possibilities when a spell should vanish from the map: Either a
spell goes out of it's spell range or it collides independent of it's travelled
distance with other entities like walls or probably later on some enemies. For
the vanishing of spells outside their range, it is needed to save the start
position of the spell, where it was casted (i.e. the player's position at spell
cast) and some distance measurement to recognize it, if spells exceed their
range. In each update step the current position of the travelling spell is
taken to calculate the euclidean distance to it's initial position.

The disappearance of spells due to collision is done like it is done for the
player. We first get the position of the entities in front and if they have
their attribute "collidable" set to true then we know that there will occur
a collision and the spell should disappear. Also note that a spell cannot be
casted by a player, if the player is directly in front of a wall. Otherwise it
can happen that the spell is casted "inside the wall", then a collision is
detected and the spell gets removed afterwards. Nevertheless, you will see it
for a short duration inside the wall. So we have to check for a possible
collision before casting the spell. If there is no obstacle in front, the spell
will be spawned, otherwise not.

In both cases, collision or out of range, the spell's attribute "isRendered" is
set to false and all entities which have this parameter set to false are
deleted from the existing entities and won't be rendered anymore.
